---
layout: post
title: "LeetCode Arrays"
date: 2024-03-13
categories: leetcode
permalink: "/LC/LeetCodeArrays"
---
_**In this post, I'll explore common array-based LeetCode questions, covering easy and medium difficulty levels.**_

<hr/>
<br>
<br>

**Problem1: Two Sum**
* **Problem Description:** Given an array of integers and a target value, determine if there are two numbers in the array that add up to the target. Return the indices of the two numbers.

* **Example:**
  * Input: nums = [2, 7, 11, 15], target = 9
  * Output: [0, 1] (Because 2 + 7 = 9)


* **There are many ways to solve this question, but for the sake of practicing arrays, we will include array-based solutions, which may not be the most optimized.**



<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Using Arrays</th>
    <th>Using Dictionary</th>
  </tr>




<tr>
<td>
<pre><code class="language-python">
def two_sum(nums, target):
    for i in range(len(nums)):
        for j in range(i + 1, len(nums)):
            if nums[i] + nums[j] == target:
                return [i, j]
    return None
</code></pre>
<p>
This method will be more straightforward but less efficient than using a dictionary. It involves using two loops to check every pair of numbers in the array to see if they add up to the target. 3/13
</p>
</td>


<td>
<pre><code class="language-python">
def two_sum(nums, target):
    num_dict = {}
    for index, num in enumerate(nums):
        needed = target - num
        if needed in num_dict:
          return [num_dict[needed], index]
        else:
          <mark>num_dict[num] = index</mark>
    return None
</code></pre>
<p>
In Python, a dictionary is a type of hash table that can map keys to values. For this problem, we can use a dictionary to remember the numbers we've seen in the array as well as their indices. We'll use this to store the array numbers as keys and their indices as values. 3/13
</p>
</td>

</tr>



  <tr>
    <th>Sorting and Two Pointers</th>
  </tr>

  <tr>
  <td>
  <pre><code class="language-python">
  def two_sum(nums, target):
  # Use the first item of each tuple 
  # (i.e., x[0]) as the basis for comparing tuples
    <mark>indexed_nums = [(num, i) for i, num in enumerate(nums)]</mark>
    <mark>indexed_nums.sort(key=lambda x: x[0])</mark>
    left = 0
    right = len(nums) - 1

    while left < right:
      current_sum = indexed_nums[left][0] + indexed_nums[right][0]
      #[left][0] access the value
      # note: the tuple stored in form: (value,index)
      if current_sum == target:
        return [indexed_nums[left][1], indexed_nums[right][1]]
      elif current_sum < target:
        left += 1
      else:
        right -= 1
     
    return None
  </code></pre>

  <p>
   <mark>First sort the array, then use two pointers to narrow down the search.</mark>
  If the sum is less than the target, move the left pointer forward.
  If the sum is greater than the target, move the right pointer backward.
  </p>
  </td>
  </tr>


</table>


<hr/>
<br>
<br>



**Problem2: Best Time to Buy and Sell Stock**

* **Problem Description:** You have an array where each element represents the price of a given stock on a single day.  Find the maximum profit you can achieve by making a single transaction (buying once and selling once).

* **Example:**
  * Input: prices = [7, 1, 5, 3, 6, 4]
  * Output: 5 (Buy on day 2 when the price is 1, sell on day 5 when the price is 6)


<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Brute Force</th>
    <th>One Pass</th>
  </tr>


<tr>
<td>
<pre><code class="language-python">
def max_profit(prices):
  max_profit = 0
  for buy_days in range(len(prices)):
    for sell_days in range(buy_days+1, len(prices)):
      current_profit = prices[sell_days] - prices[buy_days]
      max_profit = max(current_profit, max_profit)
  return max(max_profit)
</code></pre>
<p> 
Easy to understand
</p>
</td>


<td>
<pre><code class="language-python">
def max_profit(prices):
    min_price = float('inf')  
    # Start with a very high initial minimum price
    max_profit = 0

    for price in prices:
        min_price = min(min_price, price)  
        # Keep track of the lowest buying price seen so far, 
        # in this case every price will be the lowest price
        profit = price - min_price         
        # Calculate potential profit if selling today
        max_profit = max(max_profit, profit)  
        # Update max_profit if necessary

    return max_profit

</code></pre>
<p>
Tracking the minimum price seen so far as we go through the price list. Using a infinite big value, so every value you see will be min price
</p>
</td>
</tr>


</table>



<hr/>
<br>
<br>

**Problem3: Contains Duplicate**

* **Problem Description:** Determine if a given array of integers contains any duplicate elements.

* **Example:**
  * Input: nums = [1, 2, 3, 1]
  * Output: true 




<table>
  <tr>
    <th>Brute Force</th>
    <th>...TBD</th>
  </tr>


<tr>
<td>
<pre><code class="language-python">
def 

</code></pre>
<p> 
</p>
</td>


<td>
<pre><code class="language-python">
def 
    
</code></pre>
<p>
</p>
</td>
</tr>


</table>



<hr/>
<br>
<br>

**Problem4: Single Number**

* **Problem Description:** In an array where every number appears twice except for one, find the single number.

* **Example:**
  * Input: nums = [4, 1, 2, 1, 2]
  * Output: 4

<hr/>
<br>
<br>

**Problem5: Product of Array Except Self**

* **Problem Description:** Given an array of integers, calculate an output array where each element is the product of all the other elements in the input array *without* using division. 

* **Example:** 
  * Input: nums = [1, 2, 3, 4]
  * Output: [24, 12, 8, 6] 

<hr/>
<br>
<br>

**Problem6: 3Sum**

* **Problem Description:** Find all unique triplets in an array that sum to zero.

* **Example:**
  * Input: nums = [-1, 0, 1, 2, -1, -4]
  * Output: [[-1, -1, 2], [-1, 0, 1]]

<hr/>
<br>
<br>

**Problem7: Spiral Matrix**

* **Problem Description:** Given an m x n matrix, return all elements of the matrix in spiral order.

* **Example:**
  * Input: matrix = [[1,2,3],[4,5,6],[7,8,9]]
  * Output: [1,2,3,6,9,8,7,4,5]

<hr/>
<br>
<br>

**Problem8: Container With Most Water**

* **Problem Description:** You are given an array representing heights of walls. Calculate the maximum amount of water that can be contained between any two walls, assuming they form a container.

* **Example:**
  * Input: heights = [1,8,6,2,5,4,8,3,7]
  * Output: 49

<hr/>
<br>
<br>