---
layout: post
title: "How to choose your static site generator"
date: 2024-02-29
categories: general
---

**SSGs**
Static site generators (SSGs) are a cool way to build websites that are super fast, secure, and easier to manage than some older website systems. If you're interested in trying one out, the first step is figuring out which tool is the best fit for you!

**Things to Think About**

Here's what to consider when picking your SSG:

* **How much coding do you know?** Are you a beginner, have some experience, or can code circles around anything?
* **What are you building?** Will it be a simple blog, fancy documentation, or something totally different?
* **Do you need lots of control?** How much do you want to customize how your site works and looks?
* **Is a helpful community important?**  Would you like lots of people and resources to help if you get stuck?

**Popular Choices**

Let's look at some common SSGs, split based on how much coding you know:

**For Beginners**

* **Jekyll:** One of the oldest SSGs, Jekyll is easy to use and runs on Ruby.
* **Hugo:** Hugo is crazy-fast and uses a simple language to write in. It's built with Go.
* **Gatsby:**  If you're curious about React (a popular way to build websites), Gatsby is a good option.

**For Those with Some Experience**

* **Next.js:** Next.js is flexible – it can build both static websites and ones that need a server.
* **Eleventy:**  Eleventy is based on JavaScript and is all about speed and simplicity.
* **Nuxt.js:**  Nuxt.js is great if you like using Vue.js to build things.

**For Experienced Coders**

* **RedwoodJS:** This one offers a complete way to build websites using React but is still pretty new.
* **Bridgetown:**  Similar to Jekyll but with bonus features, also quite new.
* **Scully:** Made especially for Angular developers.

**It's All About the Right Fit**

There's no single "best" SSG for every single person. The smartest thing is to give a few of them a try! Most have great instructions to get you started.

**Other Stuff to Consider**

* **How it writes code:** Each SSG uses a slightly different way to write website code. Pick one that makes sense to you.
* **Add-ons:** Some SSGs have more plugins and work better with other online tools.
* **Getting it online:** Think about how easy it is to actually put a website built with each SSG live on the internet.
